README.md, before:

# docker

This is my personal collection of Dockerfiles.

The Dockerfiles create images with
* my personal shell look&feel
* my vim settings
* GNU screen settings
* build-essential (gcc, make, ...)
* tree and htop
* curl and wget

The resulting image fits *my* needs. Feel free to use them if you want to.

# About the `dock-py` tool:

This tiny little tool is capable of listing all.
* docker images along their published volumes.
* docker container and which volume they have currently mounted.
* create a container, automatically create and mount all published volumes of the 
docker container image.

In order to have this tool running you should install the docker python package 
(https://pypi.python.org/pypi/docker/2.7.0) via:

    $ pip3 install -r requirements.txt

Example usage:

#### List all images:

The main purpose is to list all published volumes of an image.

    $ dock-py images
    dyle71/ubuntu:17.10
        id:               sha256:da2533a68fc65f19242dc6db8a477e13427f8107f8625f724937faffb21e5ae9
        cmd:              /bin/sh -c #(nop)  VOLUME [/home /srv /var]
        entrypoint:       
        published volume: /home
        published volume: /srv
        published volume: /var
        working dir:      /root
    dyle71/ubuntu:17.04
        id:               sha256:88d87a4e0f5cc0535e6031819c3c8998b782fecfb058057dcd96dcfaee6c271c
        cmd:              /bin/sh -c #(nop)  VOLUME [/home /srv /var]
        entrypoint:       
        published volume: /home
        published volume: /srv
        published volume: /var
        working dir:      /root
    dyle71/debian:9
        id:               sha256:37f502b00266349e06c9c282bd069bf36672806972d67f59bf23f71f861a00a8
        cmd:              /bin/sh -c #(nop)  VOLUME [/home /srv /var]
        entrypoint:       
        published volume: /home
        published volume: /srv
        published volume: /var
        working dir:      /root

#### List all containers:

This shows which container has mounted a particular volume of the host system.

    $ dock-py containers
    ubuntu.17.10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
         image:           dyle71/ubuntu:17.10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
        status:           running                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
         mount:           [host: /var/lib/docker/volumes/ubuntu.17.10.home/_data] -(volume)-> [container: /home]                                                                                                                                                                                                
         mount:           [host: /var/lib/docker/volumes/ubuntu.17.10.srv/_data] -(volume)-> [container: /srv]                                                                                                                                                                                                  
         mount:           [host: /var/lib/docker/volumes/ubuntu.17.10.var/_data] -(volume)-> [container: /var]                                                                                                                                                                                                  
    ubuntu.17.04                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
         image:           dyle71/ubuntu:17.04                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
        status:           running                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
         mount:           [host: /var/lib/docker/volumes/ubuntu.17.04.home/_data] -(volume)-> [container: /home]                                                                                                                                                                                                
         mount:           [host: /var/lib/docker/volumes/ubuntu.17.04.srv/_data] -(volume)-> [container: /srv]                                                                                                                                                                                                  
         mount:           [host: /var/lib/docker/volumes/ubuntu.17.04.var/_data] -(volume)-> [container: /var]                                                                                                                                                                                                  
    debian.9
         image:           dyle71/debian:9
        status:           running
         mount:           [host: /var/lib/docker/volumes/debian.9.home/_data] -(volume)-> [container: /home]
         mount:           [host: /var/lib/docker/volumes/debian.9.srv/_data] -(volume)-> [container: /srv]
         mount:           [host: /var/lib/docker/volumes/debian.9.var/_data] -(volume)-> [container: /var]


#### Automatically create and mount all published volumes of a container:

    $ dock-py run dyle71/debian:9 test_debian

Note: the published volumes in the image (`/home`, `/srv` and `/var`) are labeled 
`test_debian.home`, `test_debian.srv` and `test_debian.var`. If they to not exist, 
they will be created.


## dock-py TODOs

* specify docker container restart policy on the command line. This is currently 
"until-stopped".
* specify port binding on the command line. This is currently not supported at all.

Commit message:

adds bootstrap infos to readme

README.md, after:

# docker

This is my personal collection of Dockerfiles.

The Dockerfiles create images with
* my personal shell look&feel
* my vim settings
* GNU screen settings
* build-essential (gcc, make, ...)
* tree and htop
* curl and wget

The resulting image fits *my* needs. Feel free to use them if you want to.

# Quick bootstrap of my environment

The most essenital part of the bash tweaks, vim plugins, etc. is done from within the
`install` folder.

If you have a user ready who is a sudoer and wget installed, then the most easy way
is

    $ wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dyle/docker/master/install/bootstrap.sh
    $ . bootstrap.sh

This will pull in all packages for the current user and for the root user.

**BEWARE**: Please check the installment instructions at `install/install.sh` carefully
and remove any unwanted installments or system changes!


# About the `dock-py` tool:

This tiny little tool is capable of listing all.
* docker images along their published volumes.
* docker container and which volume they have currently mounted.
* create a container, automatically create and mount all published volumes of the
docker container image.

In order to have this tool running you should install the docker python package
(https://pypi.python.org/pypi/docker/2.7.0) via:

    $ pip3 install -r requirements.txt

Example usage:

#### List all images:

The main purpose is to list all published volumes of an image.

    $ dock-py images
    dyle71/ubuntu:17.10
        id:               sha256:da2533a68fc65f19242dc6db8a477e13427f8107f8625f724937faffb21e5ae9
        cmd:              /bin/sh -c #(nop)  VOLUME [/home /srv /var]
        entrypoint:       
        published volume: /home
        published volume: /srv
        published volume: /var
        working dir:      /root
    dyle71/ubuntu:17.04
        id:               sha256:88d87a4e0f5cc0535e6031819c3c8998b782fecfb058057dcd96dcfaee6c271c
        cmd:              /bin/sh -c #(nop)  VOLUME [/home /srv /var]
        entrypoint:       
        published volume: /home
        published volume: /srv
        published volume: /var
        working dir:      /root
    dyle71/debian:9
        id:               sha256:37f502b00266349e06c9c282bd069bf36672806972d67f59bf23f71f861a00a8
        cmd:              /bin/sh -c #(nop)  VOLUME [/home /srv /var]
        entrypoint:       
        published volume: /home
        published volume: /srv
        published volume: /var
        working dir:      /root

#### List all containers:

This shows which container has mounted a particular volume of the host system.

    $ dock-py containers
    ubuntu.17.10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
         image:           dyle71/ubuntu:17.10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
        status:           running                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
         mount:           [host: /var/lib/docker/volumes/ubuntu.17.10.home/_data] -(volume)-> [container: /home]                                                                                                                                                                                                
         mount:           [host: /var/lib/docker/volumes/ubuntu.17.10.srv/_data] -(volume)-> [container: /srv]                                                                                                                                                                                                  
         mount:           [host: /var/lib/docker/volumes/ubuntu.17.10.var/_data] -(volume)-> [container: /var]                                                                                                                                                                                                  
    ubuntu.17.04                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
         image:           dyle71/ubuntu:17.04                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
        status:           running                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
         mount:           [host: /var/lib/docker/volumes/ubuntu.17.04.home/_data] -(volume)-> [container: /home]                                                                                                                                                                                                
         mount:           [host: /var/lib/docker/volumes/ubuntu.17.04.srv/_data] -(volume)-> [container: /srv]                                                                                                                                                                                                  
         mount:           [host: /var/lib/docker/volumes/ubuntu.17.04.var/_data] -(volume)-> [container: /var]                                                                                                                                                                                                  
    debian.9
         image:           dyle71/debian:9
        status:           running
         mount:           [host: /var/lib/docker/volumes/debian.9.home/_data] -(volume)-> [container: /home]
         mount:           [host: /var/lib/docker/volumes/debian.9.srv/_data] -(volume)-> [container: /srv]
         mount:           [host: /var/lib/docker/volumes/debian.9.var/_data] -(volume)-> [container: /var]


#### Automatically create and mount all published volumes of a container:

    $ dock-py run dyle71/debian:9 test_debian

Note: the published volumes in the image (`/home`, `/srv` and `/var`) are labeled
`test_debian.home`, `test_debian.srv` and `test_debian.var`. If they to not exist,
they will be created.


## dock-py TODOs

* specify docker container restart policy on the command line. This is currently
"until-stopped".
* specify port binding on the command line. This is currently not supported at all.
